WIKIPEDIA 

EARLY DAYS
The Moon formed 4.51 billion years ago,
some 60 million years after the origin of the Solar System. 
Several forming mechanisms have been proposed, including the
fission of the Moon from Earth's crust through centrifugal
force (which would require too great an initial spin of Earth),
the gravitational capture of a pre-formed Moon,(which would 
require an unfeasibly extended atmosphere of Earth to dissipate
the energy of the passing Moon),[35] and the co-formation of Earth
and the Moon together in the primordial accretion disk (which does
not explain the depletion of metals in the Moon).[35] These hypotheses 
also cannot account for the high angular momentum of the Earth–Moon system.

The prevailing hypothesis is that the Earth–Moon system formed 
after an impact of a Mars-sized body (named Theia) with the 
proto-Earth (giant impact). The impact blasted material into 
Earth's orbit and then the material accreted and formed the Moon.

HISTORY
Neil Armstrong became the first person to walk on the Moon as 
the commander of the American mission Apollo 11 by first setting 
foot on the Moon at 02:56 UTC on 21 July 1969. An estimated 
500 million people worldwide watched the transmission by the Apollo 
TV camera, the largest television audience for a live broadcast at 
that time.The Apollo missions 11 to 17 (except Apollo 13, 
which aborted its planned lunar landing) removed 380.05 kilograms 
(837.87 lb) of lunar rock and soil in 2,196 separate samples. 
The American Moon landing and return was enabled by considerable 
technological advances in the early 1960s, in domains such as ablation 
chemistry, software engineering, and atmospheric re-entry technology, 
and by highly competent management of the enormous technical undertaking.


CHARACTERISTICS
The Moon is a differentiated body. It has a geochemically distinct 
crust, mantle, and core. The Moon has a solid iron-rich inner core 
with a radius possibly as small as 240 kilometres (150 mi) and a 
fluid outer core primarily made of liquid iron with a radius of roughly
300 kilometres (190 mi). Around the core is a partially molten boundary 
layer with a radius of about 500 kilometres (310 mi). This structure 
is thought to have developed through the fractional crystallization of a 
global magma ocean shortly after the Moon's formation 4.5 billion years ago.

Consistent with this perspective, geochemical mapping made from orbit suggests 
the crust of mostly anorthosite.The Moon rock samples of the flood lavas 
that erupted onto the surface from partial melting in the mantle confirm the 
mafic mantle composition, which is more iron-rich than that of Earth.
The crust is on average about 50 kilometres (31 mi) thick.